README.md, before:

# Clean Data XMLs
Clean Data XMLs is a JavaScript command-line application designed to clean CHILI publish resource data XML files from missing entries typically caused by manually deleting files on a CHILI publish server.

This is only designed for resource data XML files, and should not be used on non-file type (settings) data XML files. Thus this should be used for:
* Documents
* Assets
* Fonts
* Workspaces
* ViewPreferences
* ThreeDModels
* FoldSettings

## Usage
The command-line application is meant to be ran on the CHILI publish server. The user running the application will need read/write permission over the CHILI publish data folder.

Download the latest release from the GitHub page.

Unzip your release, and find the clean-data-xmls.exe executable.


❗It is strongly suggested running this when all your CHILI Web App and CHILI Service are off❗

Failure to do so could mean file collision 💥 and application failure. In addition, antivirus may also conflict with this application. Your other option is to copy your data XML files to another directory and utilize the *--source* and *--resource-directory* commands with *clean*.

<br/>

Also, you should run this executable as administrator. See issue [#3](https://github.com/seancrowe/clean-data-xmls/issues/3)

### Commands

**help**

At an time run the --help option command  get a detailed list of commands and options
```
clean-data-xmls.exe --help
```

**clean**

The *clean* command is used to process a folder of data XML files with a number of options. The *clean* command requires a *--source* option argument pointing to the directory of the folder containing the data XML files.

Once completed, a itemsNotFound.json will be created (or overwritten) in the executable directory. That will contain a list of all items that were not found and removed from the data XML files.

<br/>

So for example, if you wanted to clean your Documents folder found on the server path `C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents`, the command you would use is:
```
clean-data-xmls.exe clean -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents"
```

<br/>
This command would process through all data XML files found in the Documents folder, check to see if the each item actually exist, and then modify the XML file if the document is missing.

This command will overwrite the data XMLs
<br/>
<br/>

Below is a table of options for the *clean* command 
<br/><br/>

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| source | -s --source | Yes | Source of the data XMLs |
|resource directory| -r --resource-directory| No | Source of the resource files for the data XMLs - defaults to --source value |
| output | -o --output | No | Output directory of the data XMLs after being modified - defaults to --source value|
| process amount | -p --process-amount | No | Number of data XMLs to process at the same time - defaults to 10 |

<br/>

If you did not want to overwrite the original data XML files, you would run the following command to output the modified data XML files to another folder:
```
clean-data-xmls.exe clean -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents" -o "C:\chili_data\Modified_Data\Documents"
```
It is very important the output folder already exists otherwise you will receive and error.

<br/>

**test**

The _test_ command is meant to be used after _clean_ is ran to verify the item tags removed in the data XML files were indeed missing. It will print the number of items not found by reading the itemsNotFound.json and then print the number of items it did find that were supposedly not found.

It will create a itemsFound.json containing all items that do exist in the itemsNotFound.json file.

<br/>

Below is a table of options for the _test_ command

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
|resource directory| -r --resource-directory| Yes | Source of the resource files for the data XMLs|


<br/>

**fake**

The *fake* command is meant to be used of testing. This command will take the data XML files at the required *--source* argument and create a folder/file structure from the XMLs in the required *--output* argument.

You can also include the *--skip-files* argument to replicate missing files.

Below is a table of options for the *clean* command 
<br/><br/>

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| source | -s --source | Yes | Source of data XMLs |
| output | -o --output | No | Output location of fake files |
| process amount | -p --process-amount | No | Purposefully skip files - defaults to false |

<br/>
If you wanted to create a test folder of folder and files for your data XMLs, but wanted to make sure some files were missing, you can use the following command:

```
clean-data-xmls.exe fake -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents" -o "C:\chili_data\Fake_Resources\Documents"
```
<br/>

## Warnings
### Testing
If you are testing this application, it is important to know that searching for documents in the BackOffice or using API calls like ResourceSearchPagedWithSorting and ResourceSearch will cause CHILI to **recreate** the missing items.

Therefore, if you are using the *--output* option and are not modifying the original data XML files. When you go to search through your created itemsNotFound.json in the BackOffice, you will cause CHILI to read the original data XMLs, see the file is missing, and create a blank document.

(I know this is true of Docuemnts and it is not true for Assets. I did not test other resources.)

Instead, you should either go to the location physically on the server or in the BackOffice navigate to the specific folder.

There is a new _test_ command which you can use to verify the files do not exist.

<br/>

### File Encoding
Currently Clean Data XMLs only supports UTF-8, UTF-16 LE, and UCS-2 LE.

Other encoding formats will not be supported at the moment, but could be with the library iconv-lite to convert the encoding to UTF-8. This was tested, but would require extra development to normalize names.

<br/>

### Old Windows Servers
This application uses Node v14, but this version of Node refuses to run on older Windows servers. You can get this to run on any Windows server by setting an environment variable NODE_SKIP_PLATFORM_CHECK to 1.

This exe is tested on Windows 2008 R2 with each build, which is the oldest version of Windows server CHILI supported over the last 4 years.
## Build
This project uses [Nexe](https://github.com/nexe/nexe) to compile Node 14 into a command-line application.

To build this project, you need to follow the directions on [Nexe](https://github.com/nexe/nexe) to make sure you have the requirements for building Node.js. 

Since most likely you will be building on Windows, the best way meet these requirements is on a fresh Windows 10 install, install VS Studio Community Edition, install Node 14 and choose yes to install requirements for building node, and then manually install [NASM](https://www.nasm.us/).

Once the requirements are installed, you can then fork this project and run the following commands in order:
```
npm run install
```
```
npm run build
```

Commit message:

📦️ Replace nexe with pkg and update README.md
Nexe was difficult to build and I had a few Windows machines where the
installation of the requirements failed. Pkg by Vercel is much easier to
 use and more popular than Nexe.

README.md, after:

# Clean Data XMLs
Clean Data XMLs is a JavaScript command-line application designed to clean CHILI publish resource data XML files from missing entries typically caused by manually deleting files on a CHILI publish server.

This is only designed for resource data XML files, and should not be used on non-file type (settings) data XML files. Thus this should be used for:
* Documents
* Assets
* Fonts
* Workspaces
* ViewPreferences
* ThreeDModels
* FoldSettings

## Usage
The command-line application is meant to be ran on the CHILI publish server. The user running the application will need read/write permission over the CHILI publish data folder.

Download the latest release from the GitHub page.

Unzip your release, and find the clean-data-xmls.exe executable.


❗It is strongly suggested running this when all your CHILI Web App and CHILI Service are off❗

Failure to do so could mean file collision 💥 and application failure. In addition, antivirus may also conflict with this application. Your other option is to copy your data XML files to another directory and utilize the *--source* and *--resource-directory* commands with *clean*.

<br/>

Also, you should run this executable as administrator. See issue [#3](https://github.com/seancrowe/clean-data-xmls/issues/3)

### Commands

**help**

At an time run the --help option command  get a detailed list of commands and options
```
clean-data-xmls.exe --help
```

**clean**

The *clean* command is used to process a folder of data XML files with a number of options. The *clean* command requires a *--source* option argument pointing to the directory of the folder containing the data XML files.

Once completed, a itemsNotFound.json will be created (or overwritten) in the executable directory. That will contain a list of all items that were not found and removed from the data XML files.

<br/>

So for example, if you wanted to clean your Documents folder found on the server path `C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents`, the command you would use is:
```
clean-data-xmls.exe clean -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents"
```

<br/>
This command would process through all data XML files found in the Documents folder, check to see if the each item actually exist, and then modify the XML file if the document is missing.

This command will overwrite the data XMLs
<br/>
<br/>

Below is a table of options for the *clean* command 
<br/><br/>

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| source | -s --source | Yes | Source of the data XMLs |
|resource directory| -r --resource-directory| No | Source of the resource files for the data XMLs - defaults to --source value |
| output | -o --output | No | Output directory of the data XMLs after being modified - defaults to --source value|
| process amount | -p --process-amount | No | Number of data XMLs to process at the same time - defaults to 10 |

<br/>

If you did not want to overwrite the original data XML files, you would run the following command to output the modified data XML files to another folder:
```
clean-data-xmls.exe clean -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents" -o "C:\chili_data\Modified_Data\Documents"
```
It is very important the output folder already exists otherwise you will receive and error.

<br/>

**test**

The _test_ command is meant to be used after _clean_ is ran to verify the item tags removed in the data XML files were indeed missing. It will print the number of items not found by reading the itemsNotFound.json and then print the number of items it did find that were supposedly not found.

It will create a itemsFound.json containing all items that do exist in the itemsNotFound.json file.

<br/>

Below is a table of options for the _test_ command

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
|resource directory| -r --resource-directory| Yes | Source of the resource files for the data XMLs|


<br/>

**fake**

The *fake* command is meant to be used of testing. This command will take the data XML files at the required *--source* argument and create a folder/file structure from the XMLs in the required *--output* argument.

You can also include the *--skip-files* argument to replicate missing files.

Below is a table of options for the *clean* command 
<br/><br/>

| Options | Flag | Required | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| source | -s --source | Yes | Source of data XMLs |
| output | -o --output | No | Output location of fake files |
| process amount | -p --process-amount | No | Purposefully skip files - defaults to false |

<br/>
If you wanted to create a test folder of folder and files for your data XMLs, but wanted to make sure some files were missing, you can use the following command:

```
clean-data-xmls.exe fake -s "C:\chili_data\Resources\Documents" -o "C:\chili_data\Fake_Resources\Documents"
```
<br/>

## Warnings
### Testing
If you are testing this application, it is important to know that searching for documents in the BackOffice or using API calls like ResourceSearchPagedWithSorting and ResourceSearch will cause CHILI to **recreate** the missing items.

Therefore, if you are using the *--output* option and are not modifying the original data XML files. When you go to search through your created itemsNotFound.json in the BackOffice, you will cause CHILI to read the original data XMLs, see the file is missing, and create a blank document.

(I know this is true of Docuemnts and it is not true for Assets. I did not test other resources.)

Instead, you should either go to the location physically on the server or in the BackOffice navigate to the specific folder.

There is a new _test_ command which you can use to verify the files do not exist.

<br/>

### File Encoding
Currently Clean Data XMLs only supports UTF-8, UTF-16 LE, and UCS-2 LE.

Other encoding formats will not be supported at the moment, but could be with the library iconv-lite to convert the encoding to UTF-8. This was tested, but would require extra development to normalize names.

<br/>

### Old Windows Servers
This application uses Node v14, but this version of Node refuses to run on older Windows servers. You can get this to run on any Windows server by setting an environment variable NODE_SKIP_PLATFORM_CHECK to 1.

This exe is tested on Windows 2008 R2 with each build, which is the oldest version of Windows server CHILI supported over the last 4 years.
## Build
This project uses [Pkg](https://github.com/vercel/pkg) to compile Node 14 into a command-line application. It is targeted towards Windows machines as CHILI publisher runs in a Windows environment.

You can fork this project and run the following commands in order:
```
npm run install
```
```
npm run build
```
